# Log Parsing

Log parsing involves extracting relevant information or patterns from log files. Regular expressions are commonly used for log parsing due to their flexibility and pattern matching capabilities.

The `0-stats` is a Python module that reads stdin line by line and extracts statistics such as the total file size and the count of different HTTP status codes. It uses regular expressions to match and extract relevant information from log file lines.

## Features

- Extracts the total file size from the log file.
- Counts occurrences of different HTTP status codes (200, 301, 400, 401, 403, 404, 405, 500) and prints the counts.

## Usage

1. Ensure that you have Python installed on your system.

2. Save the log file you want to analyze in the same directory as the module file (`log_analyzer.py`).

3. Open a terminal or command prompt and navigate to the directory containing the module file and the log file.

4. Run the module using the following command:
```
$ ./0-generator.py | ./0-stats.py
```

5. The module will process each line of the log file and extract the necessary information.

6. At every 10 lines processed, the module will print the total file size and the count of different HTTP status codes encountered so far.

7. Once all lines are processed or if you interrupt the program using `Ctrl+C`, the module will print the final total file size and the counts of different HTTP status codes.

## Example Output

Here's an example of the output generated by the module:

```
File size: 7281
200: 1
301: 1
400: 1
401: 1
404: 1
405: 1
500: 4
```

The output includes the total file size, followed by the count of different HTTP status codes encountered in the log file. Only status codes with a non-zero count are displayed.

## Dependencies

The module relies on the following Python standard libraries:

- `re`: Provides support for regular expressions.
- `sys`: Provides access to system-specific parameters and functions.

No additional dependencies are required.

## Notes

- The module assumes that the log file follows a specific format with IP addresses, timestamps, and HTTP request lines. Ensure that your log file adheres to this format for accurate results.

- If you encounter any issues or have questions, please feel free to contact the module author.

## Author

The Log File Analyzer module is developed and maintained by Silamlak Desye.
```
